CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Ifill: SENATOR TED CRUZ IS
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT, THE FIRST
CANDIDATE TO OFFICIALLY ENTER
THE 2016 RACE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
AS THE DEADLINE FOR A DEAL WITH
IRAN LOOMS, WE TALK WITH THE
CHIEF OF THE UNITED NATIONS
NUCLEAR WATCHDOG.
>> Ifill: PLUS...
>> HE SAID WE HAVE REASON TO
BELIEVE THAT TRISTAN DIED FROM
SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME.
>> Ifill: WHEN A FAMILY TRAGEDY
TURNS INTO A LEGAL NHTMAIGRE.
DOUBTS AND SCRUTINY OVER A
DIAGNOSIS THAT TRIGGERS CHARGES
OF ABUSE AND PUTS SOME
CAREGIVERS BEHIND BARS.
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN DOCTORS WHO
BELIEVE THAT WHEN YOU SEE A
PARTICULAR SET OF FINDINGS AND
YOU DON'T HAVE THE EXPLANATION
OF A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT, LIKE A
CAR ACCIDENT OR A FALL FROM A
REALLY HIGH, HIGH PLACE, OR A
PARTICULAR ILLNESS THAT WHAT
MUST REMAIN IS ABUSE.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE CRUMBLING
SITUATION IN YEMEN BROUGHT A NEW
APPEAL, AND A WARNING, TODAY.
THE U.S.-BACKED PRESIDENT,
ABDRABBO MANSOUR HADI, CALLED
FOR GULF ARAB NATIONS TO
INTERVENE AGAINST SHIITE REBELS
ALLIED WITH IRAN.
ON SUNDAY, THE REBELS SEIZED
YEMEN'S THIRD LARGEST CITY,
TAIZ, AND THREATENED TO PUSH
SOUTH TO ADEN, WHERE PRESIDENT
HADI HAS TAKEN REFUGE.
IN RESPONSE, SAUDI ARABIA WARNED
THE ARAB STATES WILL ACT TO
PROTECT YEMEN AGAINST THE REBEL
ADVANCE.
>> Ifill: ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU APOLOGIZED
TODAY TO HIS COUNTRY'S ARAB
CITIZENS.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT COMMENTS HE
MADE IN THE PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTION CAMPAIGN WERE
OFFENSIVE.
NETANYAHU WAS ACCUSED OF RACISM
WHEN HE WARNED ON ELECTION DAY
THAT ARABS WERE VOTING "IN
DROVES."
TODAY HE SAID: "THIS WAS NEVER
MY INTENT."
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WANTS FUNDING TO
MAINTAIN AFGHAN SECURITY FORCES
AT A MAXIMUM OF 350,000 TROOPS
THROUGH 2017.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY AS AFGHAN
PRESIDENT ASHRAF GHANI BEGAN A
SERIES OF MEETINGS WITH TOP
AMERICAN OFFICIALS AT CAMP
DAVID, MARYLAND.
THE U.S. EFFORT IS COSTING $4
BILLION A YEAR, BUT GHANI SAID
IT'S VITAL.
>> THIS IS A MAJOR STATEMENT OF
SUPPORT.
OUR ARMED FORCES AND OUR
SECURITY FORCES ARE GOING TO
GREET THIS WITH ENORMOUS WELCOME
BECAUSE IT GIVES THEM THE
ASSURANCE THAT RESOLUTE SUPPORT
MISSION IS CONTINUING AND THAT
WE ARE ABLE TO FOCUS ON OUR KEY
PRIORITIES.
>> Woodruff: GHANI MEETS
TOMORROW WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA.
THE TWO LEADERS ARE EXPECTED TO
AGREE ON KEEPING MORE U.S.
TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN FOR LONGER
THAN ORIGINALLY PLANNED.
>> Ifill: IN SYRIA, ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS PRESSED NEW
ATTACKS ON GOVERNMENT FORCES.
THEY ATTACKED A MILITARY AIRPORT
IN HOMS PROVINCE, AFTER A THREE-
DAY BATTLE FARTHER WEST, IN
HAMA.
THEY'VE SUFFERED RECENT SETBACKS
IN NORTHEASTERN SYRIA, BUT NOW
THEY'RE TARGETING PROVINCES TO
THE WEST.
>> Woodruff: THE CITY-STATE OF
SINGAPORE WAS IN MOURNING TODAY,
FOR LONGTIME LEADER LEE KUAN
YEW.
HE DIED AT THE AGE OF 91 AFTER A
LONG ILLNESS.
LEE LED SINGAPORE WITH AN IRON
HAND FOR MORE THAN 30 YEARS,
UNTIL 1990.
HE TRANSFORMED IT INTO AN
ECONOMIC POWERHOUSE, BUT
MAINTAINED A STRICT SOCIAL
ORDER.
TODAY, MOURNERS MOSTLY
REMEMBERED HIM IN A FAVORABLE
LIGHT.
>> HE HAS DONE VERY GREAT JOB IN
BUILDING OUR NATION, GIVING US
WHAT WE CALL OUR HOME.
IF NOT FOR HIM, YOU WILL NEVER
SEE SINGAPORE ON THE WORLD MAP.
THAT IS MY GREATEST RESPECT FOR
HIM BECAUSE HE REALLY CARES FOR
THE PEOPLE, SO I FELT VERY SAD.
>> Woodruff: LEE KWAN YEW WAS
REMEMBERED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA AS
"A VISIONARY."
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
TWO NEW REPORTS ON POLICE
CONDUCT.
IN PHILADELPHIA, A FEDERAL
REVIEW FOUND TOO MANY OFFICERS
BELIEVE FEARING FOR THEIR LIVES
IS REASON ENOUGH TO OPEN FIRE.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS THAT
IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH CITY
POLICY OR COURT RULINGS.
THE REVIEW EXAMINED NEARLY 400
SHOOTINGS, MOSTLY INVOLVING
BLACK SUSPECTS.
>> Woodruff: AND IN CHICAGO,
THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION CHARGES POLICE MAKE USE OF
"STOP AND FRISK" TACTICS THAT
TARGET MINORITIES.
THERE WERE MORE THAN 250,000
STOPS LAST SUMMER, WITH NO
ARRESTS.
BLACKS MAKE UP ONE-THIRD OF
CHICAGO'S POPULATION.
BUT THEY ACCOUNTED FOR NEARLY
THREE-FOURTHS OF THOSE STOPPED.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET STARTED
THE WEEK ON A QUIET NOTE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
EDGED DOWN 11 POINTS TO STAY
ABOVE 18,100.
THE NASDAQ FELL 15 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED 3.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
POLITICS MONDAY WITH TED CRUZ IN
THE RACE.
THE CHIEF OF THE U.N.'S NUCLEAR
WATCHDOG AGENCY ON MAKING AND
MONITORING A DEAL WITH IRAN.
RE-EXAMINING THE DEATHS OF
INFANTS THAT PUT SOME PARENTS
INTO PRISONS.
NO EVIDENCE FOUND TO SUPPORT THE
STORY THAT A UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA STUDENT WAS GANG RAPED.
THE SUPREME COURT WEIGHS WHAT
CAN BE PUT ON A LICENSE PLATE IN
TEXAS.
AND, A SNAPSHOT OF KODAK AFTER
FILM.
>> Ifill: THE FIELD IS CROWDED
WITH THOSE WHO SAY THEY MAYBE,
SORT OF, MIGHT RUN FOR
PRESIDENT.
BUT SENATOR TED CRUZ MADE IT
OFFICIAL TODAY.
IN AN APPEARANCE AT LIBERTY
UNIVERSITY, A CHRISTIAN SCHOOL
IN LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA, THE
TEXAS REPUBLICAN BECAME THE
FIRST CANDIDATE TO ANNOUNCE A
BID IN 2016.
>> I BELIEVE IN YOU.
I BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF
MILLIONS OF COURAGEOUS
CONSERVATIVES TO REIGNITE THE
PROMISE OF AMERICA.
THAT IS WHY TODAY I'M ANNOUNCING
I'M RUNNING FOR THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: WITH CRUZ ALL IN, IT'S
THE PERFECT DAY FOR OUR MONDAY
CHECK-IN ON ALL THINGS POLITICS.
TONIGHT, WE TURN TO AMY WALTER
OF THE "COOK POLITICAL REPORT,"
AND SUSAN PAGE OF "USA TODAY."
AMY, BESIDES BEING A FIRST-TERM
SENATOR AND HAS BEEN IN
WASHINGTON THREE YEARS AND THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN ALONG THE
WAY, THAT'S ALL MOST PEOPLE KNOW
ABOUT TED CRUZ, WHO IS HE?
>> HE WAS IN THE FIRST WAVE OF
TEA PARTY SENATORS.
HE GOT TO WASHINGTON IN THE WAY
THAT MANY IN THE CLASS OF 2010
AND HE CAME IN '12 BY KNOCKING
OFF ESTABLISHMENT FIGURES.
HE WASN'T SUPPOSED TO WIN.
HE WAS UP AGAINST A LIEUTENANT
GOVERNOR IN, THE TOOK HIM TO THE
RUNOFF, WON IT, HERE HE IS IN
WASHINGTON.
HE'S A CONSERVATIVE CRUSADER,
TAKES ON A LOT OF CHALLENGES,
HASN'T WON M. BUT BEFORE THAT,
THAT WAS HIS CALLING CARD.
HE'S BEEN ATTORNEY GENERAL IN+++
SO BEEN AROUND THE BLOCK IN
POLITICS IN TEXAS
THOUGH NEW AS
SENATOR.
>> Ifill: I REMEMBER THE 2012
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION WHEN TED
CRUZ WALKED IN, THERE WAS A WAVE
OF EXCITEMENT ABOUT HIS ARRIVAL
ON THE SCENE.
SEEMS LIKE I TURNED AROUND AND I
THOUGHT, WHAT AM I MISSING?
SO SEEMS LIKE THERE WAS A MOMENT
WHEN HE EXPLODED.
>> HE'S NOT A GUY WHO WAITED HIS
TURN.
HE DIDN'T DO THAT IN TEXAS.
HE TOOK THE FIRST REPUBLICAN
SENATE CANDIDATE'S S
HIM, DAVID DUHURST.
HE DOESN'T CARE IF HE ANNOYS HIS
ELDERS WITH HIS TACTICS.
HE'S MORE OF AN AGITATOR THAN A
LEGISLATOR AND WE'LL SEE HOW
THAT WORKS THIS THE PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN.
>> Ifill: A LONG SPEECH HE
GAVE TODAY IN LYNCHBURG.
DID HE SAY AT ANY POINT WHY HE'S
RUNNING?
>> HE SAYS TO BRING BACK THE
PROMISE OF AMERICA.
BASICALLY THE THEORY GOES,
REPUBLICANS ARE LOSING AND
THEY'VE LOST TWO  +*79LE ELECTIS
NOT BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T ATTRACT
ENOUGH PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE BUT
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T GET ENOUGH
CONSERVATIVE TO TURN OUT.
HE TALKED ABOUT THE FACT
EVANGELICAL CONSERVATIVES
HAVEN'T TURNED OUT BECAUSE IN
PART THEY DON'T HAVE ANYBODY
MAKE LOOK TO.
GETTING INTO SPECIFICS -- DIDN'T
GIVE SPECIFICS HOW HE'S GOING TO
TURN THE FOLKS OUT BUT WE KNOW
FROM HIS PAST EXPERIENCE HE'LL
CHARGE HARD RIGHT ON SOCIAL AND
CULTURAL ISSUES, ON
FINANCIAL-FISCAL ISSUES AND
FOREIGN AFFAIRS THROUGHOUT THE
CAMPAIGN.
>> Ifill: WAS IT SIGNIFICANT
HE DID THIS FROM A COLLEGE
CAMPUS?
>> I THINK IT WAS SIGNIFICANT HE
DID IT ON THIS COLLEGE CAMPUS,
THE WORLD LARGES LARGEST CHRISTN
CAMPUS, FOUNDERED BY JERRY
FALWELL, THE EVAN YELLICLE
CHRISTIAN LEADER.
I THINK H HE'S LOOKING TO
BROADEN THE SUPPORT TO MORE
CHRISTIAN CONSERVATIVES WHO
MIGHT BE VOTING FOR HUCKABEE OR
SANATORIUOR -- RICK SANTORUM.
>> Ifill: DOES IT SEEM LIKE A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE COMPETING FOR
THE SAME VOTERS?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY HIS PROBLEM.
HE'S GOING TO BE THE
CONSERVATIVE ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT
CANDIDATE UP AGAINST THE
ESTABLISHMENT CANDIDATE, WHO
MANY THINK WILL BE JEB BUSH.
THE PROBLEM IS THE
ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT SLOT IS FULL
OF A LOT OF FOLKS.
WE MENTIONED SOME OF THEM.
THE MIKE HUCKABEE, THE RICK
SANTORUM.
YOU HAVE SCOTT WALKER, RAND
PAUL, BEN CARSON, A WHOLE LOT OF
FOLKS HE'S COMPETING WITH.
HE'S CHALLENGED BY SOMEBODY LIKE
SCOTT WALKER WHO HE SEES AS HIS
BUSINESSINBUSINESSING COMPETITIE
SLOT OVERANTI-ESTABLISHMENT IS
SCOTT WALKER'S APPEAL TO THE
REPUBLICANS IS HE'S A BOLD
CONSERVATIVE AND FOUND SUCCESS
IN A BLUE STATE.
TED CRUZ HAS PUT UP A LOT OF
FIGHTS BUT NO WINS.
>> Ifill: WHO'S NEXT IN LINE
OUT OF THE BOX?
>> WE THINK RAND PAUL WILL BE
NEXT OUT IN ABOUT TWO WEEKS AND
MARCO RUBIO MIGHT BE THE NEXT
ONE AND HILLARY CLINTON MIGHT BE
THE NEXT ONE OUT.
BUT TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT IS THE
STARTING GUN THEY ALL HEAR AND
PROPEL SOME TO THINK IT'S TIME
TO GET IN THE RACE BECAUSE NOW
THERE WILL BE ATTENTION.
THAT'S MUCH TO TED CRUZ'S
BENEFIT.
HE'S BEEN OVERSHADOWED.
THE WHOLE POINT FOR BEING FIRST.
AND ALSO NOT DOING THE I'M GOING
TO TEST THE WATERS THING.
HE SAYS, I'M RUNNING, I'M IN.
I THINK THAT PUTS REAL PRESSURE
TON THE OTHER CONTENDERS.
A LARGE FIELD ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE WHO WANT TO RUN FOR THIS
NOMINATION.
>> Ifill: DO THEY ALL THINK
THEY'RE RUNNING AGAINST JEB BUSH
AT THIS POINT?
>> MANY PEOPLE NOT NAMED JEB
BUSH, BUT IT WILL BE A
TWO-PERSON RACE BETWEEN THE
ANTI-AND JEB BUSH.
>> Ifill: THE DEMOCRATS,
THEY'RE STILL OUT THERE AND
THERE IS SOME DISCUSSION.
YOU MENTIONED HILLARY CLINTON,
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHETHER SHE
REALLY HAS THIS THING TO HERSELF
OR ANY KIND OF UNHAPPINESS
BEGINNING TO BUBBLE TO THE
SURFACE ON THE D. J. SIDE OF
THINGS.
>> CERTAINLY THERE ARE
PROGRESSIVE LEADERS WHO WANT
SOMEONE ELSE IN THE RACE, WHO
DON'T TRUST HILLARY CLINTON, WHO
THINK SHE'S TOO MUCH OF A
WALL STREET DEMOCRAT, WHO ARE
VERY MUCH BEHIND ELIZABETH
WARREN.
ELIZABETH WARREN ISN'T PERSUADED
THIS IS A GOOD THING FOR HER TO
DO.
NO SIGNS OF HILLARY CLINTON.
HER SUPPORT IS QUITE REMARKABLE.
I'M OF THE OPINION THE ONLY
PERSON WHO CAN TAKE THE
NOMINATION AWAY FROM HILLARY
CLINTON WOULD BE HILLARY CLINTON
EITHER BY CHOICE OR SOME
FANTASTIC ERROR.
I THINK SHE SEEMS TO BE THE
STRONGEST NON- INCUMBENT
CONTENDER FOR THE PRESIDENT'S
RACE THAT WE'VE SEEN IN AT LEAST
50 YEARS.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S EXACTLY
RIGHT.
THERE SEEMS TO BE A NARRATIVE
BUILDING AND I THINK A LOT OF IT
IS, QUITE FRANKLY, A PRESS CORPS
AND OTHERS WHO WANTO T SEE
SOMETHING EXCITING HAPPENING.
>> NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT.
HAVING
SOME EXCITEMENT ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE.
THE PROBLEM IS THE VOTERS DON'T
SEEM TO WANT TO RACE.
A DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY VOTER, THEY
ARE VERY HAPPY WITH HILLARY
CLINTON.
75% OF THEM THINK HILLARY
CLINTON REPRESENTS CHANGE.
REPUBLICAN VOTERS DON'T THINK
THAT ABOUT JEB BUSH.
THIS IS A WOMAN WHO'S SET UP
VERY WELL.
HOWEVER, SHE SHOULDN'T WANT TO
GO WITHOUT A PRIMARY.
SHE SHOULD WANT THE CHALLENGE.
SHE SHOULD WANT TO HAVE TO PROVE
THAT SHE'S A STRONG CAMPAIGNER.
>> Ifill: PRACTICAL QUESTION.
QUESTION SEE THE BUSH FAMILY IS
RAISING MONEY FOR JEB EVEN
THOUGH HE'S DOING TEX PLOAR TORE
THING.
DOES THIS MEANING, EXPLORATORY
OR FORMAL ANNOUNCEMENT, IS THERE
A DISTINCTION WITHOUT DIFFERENCE
THAT THE MONEY WILL GET RAISED?
>> COMPLETELY.
THE CANDIDATES HAVE DECIDED TO
UN.
THIS TASK IS TOO HARD, TOO
GRUELING AND TOO IMPORTANT TO
TEST THE WATERS.
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF WAITING
UNTIL YOU FIND THE RIGHT MOMENT
FOR YOU TO ANNOUNCE IT.
AND HERE'S THE QUESTION I HAVE,
THE PARTICIPATION OF THE BUSH
FAMILY FOR JEB BUSH, IS THAT
REALLY A PLUS FOR HIM?
BECAUSE H BIGGEST PROBLEM IS
PEOPLE SAY, WOW, ANOTHER BUSH.
>> Ifill: AMY WALTER, SUSAN
PAGE, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE IRAN NUCLEAR
TALKS ARE SET TO RESUME LATER
THIS WEEK WITH THE GOAL OF
REACHING A DEAL BEFORE A
DEADLINE AT THE END OF THE
MONTH.
BUT POLITICS AT HOME ARE
COMPLICATING U.S. DIPLOMATIC
EFFORTS ABROAD.
>> WE DO BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE
MADE IMPORTANT PROGRESS OVER THE
LAST FEW WEEKS.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST WHITE
HOUSE ASSESSMENT CAME AS A
CONGRESSIONAL LETTER TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS MADE PUBLIC.
IT WAS SIGNED BY 367 MEMBERS OF
THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBCANSLI ALIKE.
DATED MARCH 20TH, THE LETTER
SAID: "A FINAL COMPREHENSIVE
NUCLEAR AGREEMENT MUST CONSTRAIN
IRAN'S NUCLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE SO
THAT IRAN HAS NO PATHWAY TO A
BOMB, AND THAT AGREEMENT MUST BE
LONG-LASTING."
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST SEEMED TO MIRROR THOSE
DEMANDS IN HIS OWN REMARKS.
>> WHAT WE WILL INSIST ON IS
THAT WE CUT OFF EVERY PATHWAY TO
A NUCLEAR WEAPON THAT IRAN HAS
AND THAT THEY AGREE TO AND
SUBMIT TO HISTORICALLY INTRUSIVE
INSPECTIONS INTO THEIR NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
IF IRAN IS NOT ABLE TO MAKE
THOSE COMMITMENTS, THEN THERE
WILL BE NO DEAL THAT IS REACHED.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN REPORTED
THAT THE U.S. AND IRAN ARE
WORKING ON A DEAL FOR A 40%
REDUCTION IN IRAN'S NUCLEAR
CENTRIFUGES, FOR TEN YEARS, IN
EXCHANGE FOR PHASED-OUT
EXCHANGE FOR PHASED-OUT ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS.
BUT OVER THE WEEKEND, FRANCE
APPEARED TO TAKE A HARDER LINE,
INSISTING THAT A DEAL MUST
PREVENT IRAN FROM MAINTAINING
ANY ABILITY TO BUILD A NUCLEAR
BOMB.
>> ( translated ): AS LONG AS WE
DO NOT AGREE ON EVERYTHING, THEN
THE AGREEMENT DOESN'T EXIST, BUT
WE ARE WORKING ON IT.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, IRAN'S
DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER PUSHED
THE U.S., FRANCE AND FOUR OTHER
POWERS TO FIND A COMMON POSITION
IN ORDER TO REACH A DEAL.
THEN, IT  WOULD FALL TO THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY OR I.A.E.A, TO MONITOR
COMPLIANCE.
THAT GROUP IS CONDUCTING ITS OWN
INVESTIGATION OF IRAN'S PROGRAM,
AS THE NEGOTIATIONS PROCEED.
THOSE TALKS RESUME WEDNESDAY,
WITH AN END-OF-MONTH DEADLINE
JUST DAYS AWAY.
>> Woodruff: AND WITH ME NOW IS
THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE
NUCLEAR WATCH DOG AGENCY OR
IAEA, YUKIYA AMANO.
MR. AMANO, THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US.
>> THANK YOU FOR INVITING ME.
>> Woodruff: BASED ON
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW ABOUT THE
DEAL TATS BEING WORKED ON, DOES
IT GIVE YOUR AGENCY THE ABILITY
TO DO WHAT YOU NEED TO DO?
>> THE I.A.E.A. HAS THE ABILITY
TO VERIFY AND MONITOR THE
ACTIVITIES IN IRAN.
THE IMPORTANT THING IS THAT IRAN
AGREE TO IMPLEMENT APART FROM
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOLS, WE ALSO
NEED TO CLARIFY THE ISSUES THAT
IRAN MAY HAVE HAD IN THE PAST.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TAKE THE
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL FIRST.
IRAN HAS AGREED TO SOME OF THIS.
WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN?
WE KNOW IT HASN'T BEEN RATIFIED
YET IN IRAN, BUT THEY HAVE, IN
ESSENCE, AGREED TO IT.
WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN IF THAT'S
CARRIED OUT?
>> I'LL TALK TO THAT.
IRAN SIGNED THE ADDITIONAL
PROTOCOL AND IRAN IMPLEMENTED
THIS ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL FOR
SOME TIME THAT IT IS NOT
IMPLEMENTING THE ADDITIONAL
PROTOCOL.
WHAT IS THE ADVANTAGE OF THE
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL?
WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL, WE CAN HAVE
ACCESS TO THE SITE WHIC, OR WE N
REQUEST AN INSPECT TO THE
COUNTRY.
THESE ACTIVITIES ARE VERY USEFUL
TO DETECT UNDECLARED ACTIVITIES.
>> Woodruff: IF YOU DON'T GET
THAT, IS THIS DEAL WORTH HAVING?
IF YOU CANNOT HAVE THAT KIND OF
ACCESS, IS THIS A DEAL THAT'S
WORTH ALL THE EFFORT THAT WOULD
HAVE GONE INTO IT?
>> I THINK THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL IS
ESSENTIAL TO HAVE THE CONFIDENCE
IN THE PEACEFUL NATURE OF IRAN
NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES.
OTHERWISE, WE CAN HAVE THE
ASSURANCE THAT THE ACTIVITIES --
THE DECLARED ACTIVITIES ARE FOR
A PEACEFUL PURPOSE BUT WE CANNOT
SAY EVERYTHING IS A PEACEFUL
PURPOSE OR NOT.
>> Woodruff: MR. AMANO, WHAT
IS THE INSPECTION SITUATION?
I THINK MANY PEOPLE DON'T
REALIZE THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
INSPECTIONS GOING ON.
WHAT IS THE EXTENT OF WHAT YOUR
AGENCY IS ABLE TO DO NOW EVEN
WITHOUT A NEW AGREEMENT?
>> THERE IS AN AGREEMENT WHICH
IS CALLED A COMPREHENSIVE
SAFEGUARD AGREEMENT BETWEEN IRAN
AND I.A.E.A.
IN LIGHT OF THIS -- IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THIS AGREEMENT,
IRAN PLACES A NUMBER OF SITES
UNDER I.A.E.A. MONITORING AND
VERIFICATION.
FOR THESE FACILITIES, WE CAN
SEND THE INSPECTORS, WE CAN
INSTALL CAMERA AND WE CAN TELL
THESE ACTIVITIES ARE IN PEACEFUL
PURPOSE.
BUT WHAT WE DON'T KNOW WITHOUT
THEY HAVE UNDECLARED ACTIVITIES
OR SOMETHING ELSE.
WEAT THEY DID IN
THE PAST.
SO WE KNOW A PART OF THE
ACTIVITIES BUT WE CANNOT TELL WE
KNOW ALL THE ACTIVITIES AND THAT
IS WHY WE CANNOT SAY THAT ALL
THE ACTIVITIES IN IRAN IS FOR
PEACEFUL PURPOSES.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU HAVE A
SENSE OR ABLE TO GET A READ ON
WHETHER IRAN IS PREPARED TO GIVE
THE KIND OF ACCESS YOU SAY THERE
MUST BE?
>> THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL IRAN
ALREADY SIGNED.
THEY GAVE INDICATIONS THAT WHEN
THE AGREEMENT IS REACHED, THEY
ARE READY TO IMPLEMENT IT, AT
LEAST.
>> Woodruff: THEY'VE SAID THAT
BUT IT JUST HASN'T BEEN
IMPLEMENTED, IS WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING?
>> JUST AS AN EXAMPLE, IRAN AND
P5 PLUS 1 AGREED TO JOIN THE
FACTION.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER WORLD
POWERS.
>> YES, IN 2013 AND THEY RIMPLE
MEANING IT.
THEY ARE IMPLEMENTING
COMPREHENSIVE SAFEGUARD
AGREEMENT BUT THEY HAVE NOT SAID
YET THAT THEY IMPLEMENT THE
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL.
THIS IS THE POINT AND THIS IS
THE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: SO THERE ARE
STILL SITES, STILL PEOPLE, STILL
DATA THAT I.A.E.A. WANTS ACCESS
TO.
I ALSO WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT THE
WORK OF YOUR AGENCY YOU'VE
REFERRED TO SEVERAL TIMES IS YOU
WANT TO KNOW WHAT THEY'VE DONE
IN THE PAST ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS
AND WHETHER THEY'VE WORKED ON
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THEY SAY THEY HAVE NOT.
YOU'RE NOT GETTING COOPERATION
ON THAT THEN, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> WE HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION,
WE HAVE COLLECTED OUR OWN
INFORMATION AND WE HAVE HEARD
FROM IRAN AND OUR INFORMATION
INDICATES THAT IRAN ENGAGED IN
ACTIVITIES REGARDING NUCLEAR
EXPLOSIVEEV TO
CLARIFY THESE ISSUES.
THE POLICY-MAKING ORGAN OF THE
I.A.E.A. AND THE SECURITY
COUNCIL REQUESTED IRAN TO ENGAGE
WITH THE I.A.E.A. AND CLARIFY
THE ISSUES.
SO FAR, THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
CLARIFICATION BUT THE PROGRESS
HAS BEEN VERY LIMITED.
WE NEED TO ACCELERATE AND
CLARIFY ALL THE AREAS THAT WE
HAVE IDENTIFIED I1.
>> Woodruff: AND HOW LONG HAS
YOUR AGENCY BEEN ASKING FOR THIS
INFORMATION?
>> WE -- ASTIME BUT IN 2011, WEE
INFORMATION WITH THE MEMBER
STATES.
SINCE THAT TIME WE NICHEIATED
AND IN 2013 REACHED AN AGREEMENT
OF THE CLARIFICATION.
>> Woodruff: BUT WITHOUT THAT
INFORMATION, NOT TO MENTION THE
ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL YOU HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT, ARE YOU
COMFORTABLE -- WOULD YOU BE
COMFORTABLE WITH A NEW AGREEMENT
IF THEY ARE ABLE TO REACH ONE?
>> I THINK IT IS VERY IMPORTANT
THAT IRAN ENGAGE WITH US TO
CLARIFY THESE ISSUES.
THAT IS NECESSARY TO RESTORE THE
CONFIDENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY AND THE PEACEFUL
NATURE OF IRAN NUCLEAR
ACTIVITIES.
>> Woodruff: AT THIS POINT,
WHAT DO YOU BELIEVE WHAT WILL
HAPPEN?
>> MY FEAR IS CLARIFYING THIS
ISSUE IS IN THE INTEREST OF IRAN
AND IF IRAN WANTS TO RESTORE
THEIR CONFIDENCE, IT IS MUCH
BETTER TO DO IT SOONER THAN
LATER.
I HAVE A MEETING IN MUNICH WITH
THE IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER,
AND I HAD A MEETING IF AND I'M
MAKING THIS POINT TO ACCELERATE
AND ENGAGE WITH US PROACTIVELY.
>> Woodruff: YUKIYA AMANO,
DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL
ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: NEXT A DIAGNOSIS
RECONSIDERED.
FOR DECADES, WHEN A CHILD
APPEARED IN AN EMERGENCY ROOM
WITH UNEXPLAINED HEAD INJURIES
AND A DISTURBING SET OF
SYMPTOMS, MANY DOCTORS ASSUMED
ONE THING TO BE THE CAUSE:
VIOLENT SHAKING AND POTENTIAL
CHILD ABUSE.
BUT IN RECENT YEARS, THE
DIAGNOSIS OF WHAT'S KNOWN AS
SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME HAS COME
UNDER INTENSE SCRUTINY, AND SO
HAVE MANY OF THE PROSECUTIONS
AND CONVICTIONS THAT FOLLOWED.
SPECIAL CORRESPDENTON JACKIE
JUDD BEGINS OUR STORY IN OLNEY,
MARYLAND.
ON A GLORIOUS SUNDAY LAST
MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND IN SUBURBAN
WASHINGTON, ANDREW TAUGHT HIS
ON --
>> GO, GO, GO!
>
>> Reporter: HIS WIFE SHOT THE
SCENE WITH THE BABY NEARBY.
PEOPLE MARVELED HOW IDEAL THE
FAMILY SEEMED.
>> IT WAS THE PERFECT WEEKEND.
TRYSTAN WAS SMILEY.
>> Reporter: 12 HOURS LATER
THEIR LIVES WERE INIMAGINABLY
ALTERED WHEN THEY REALIZED
18-YEAR-OLD TRYSTAN HAD NOT
CRIED OUT FOR HIS 2:00 A.M.
FEEDING.
>> I SHOT UP IN BED AND LOOKED
AT THE MONITOR AND ALL I COULD
SEE WAS HIS BUTT IN THE AIR.
I WENT INTO THE ROOM AND PULLED
HIM UP OUT OF THE BED AND I JUST
HEARD THIS GASP FOR AIR.
I LOOKED AT HIM AND HE WAS SO
COLD.
>> Reporter: THE MOTHER FOUND
TRYSTAN SLIPPED OVER AND
STRUGGLING TO BREATHE TOOK THE
BABY TO THE HOSPITAL, THINKING
HE MIGHT HAVE SUFFERED A
DIABETIC REACTION.
TO MEDSTAR HOSPITAL, DOCTOR
SUSPECTED MENINGITIS.
BY WEDNESDAY MORNING, TRYSTAN
WAS DEAD.
A DOCTOR TOLD THE SHORTELLES THE
CAUSE APPEARED TO HAVE BEEN
CHILD ABUSE BECAUSE OF BLEEDING
BEHIND THE EYES AND OTHER
SYMPTOMS.
>> AND HE PULLED BOTH OF US INTO
THE PSYCH ROOM AND SAID WE HAVE
REASON TO BELIEVE TRYSTAN DIED
FROM SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME, THE
EVIDENCE DOESN'T LIE.
MY MOUTH DROPPED.
I WAS, LIKE, THERE'S NO WAY.
>> I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WHAT THEY
SAID I SAID, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THAT IS.
>> Reporter: WITHIN MINUTES OF
TRYSTAN'S DEATH, THE MOTHER WAS
PUT IN A ROOM AND QUESTIONED BY
A SOCIAL WORKER AND HOMICIDE
DETECTIVE.
IT WAS THE START OF A FAMILY
STRATEGY AND A LEGAL NIGHT MAYOR
AS WELL AS A WINDOW INTO WHAT
SOME VIEWERS SEE AS A FLAWED
PROCESS OF SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME.
IT IS NOW UNDERSTOOD THAT FALLS,
INFECTIONS, BLOOD DISORDERS,
EVEN THE BIRTHER PROCESS IS
CAUSE SOME OF THE SAME SYMPTOMS
ONCE WIDELY BELIEVED TIED ONLY
TO SHAKING.
>> WE KNOW IT CAN HAPPEN FROM
ACCIDENTS, DISEASE AND ALL SORTS
OF STUFF.
>> Reporter: UNIVERSITY OF
WISCONSIN LAW SCHOOL CONSULTS ON
SHAKEN BABY CASES IN THE
INNOCENTS NETWORKS.
>> SOME DOCTORS THINK IF YOU
HAVE A SET OF FINDINGS AND DON'T
HAVE AN EXPLANATION OF A
TERRIBLE CAR ACCIDENT OR FALL
FROM A REALLY HIGH HEIGHT OR A
PARTICULAR ILLNESS THAT WHAT
MUST REMAIN IS ABUSE.
>> Reporter: THE SET OF
FINDINGS OR SYMPTOMS IS OFTEN
KNOWN AS THE TRIAD -- BLEEDING
BEHIND THE EYES, BLEEDING AROUND
THE BRAIN AND SWELLING OF THE
BRAIN.
FOR DECADES, SOME DOCTORS HAVE
CONSIDERED THE PRESENCE TO HAVE
THE TRIAD AS IRREFUTABLE PROOF
THAT A BABY HAS BEEN VIOLENTLY
SHAKEN AS ILLUSTRATED IN THIS LS
CAUSING THE BRAIN TO SLAM
AGAINST THE SKULL.
FURTHER, THAT THE DISABLING AND
SOMETIMES FATAL SYMPTOMS COME ON
SO QUICKLY, THE LAST PERSON WITH
THE BABY MUST BE RESPONSIBLE.
THE MOST NOTORIOUS CASE INVOLVED
LOUISE WOODWARD, A NANNY IN
MASSACHUSETTS WHO, IN 1997, WAS
FOUND GUILTY OF INVOLUNTARY
MANSLAUGHTER.
MORE THAN 1,000 CASES OF SHAKEN
BABY ARE DIAGNOSED EVERY YEAR.
EXPERTS ESTIMATE THAT AT LEAST
100 OF THOSE ARE PROSECUTED.
>> HI!
>> Reporter: SOME OF THOSE
CONVICTED TURNED TO THE
INNOCENCE NETWORK'S
ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING TRADENN
WHO LIVES IN THE PHOENIXIARY WHO
IS ONE OF A FEW WHO HAVE HAD
THEIR CASES OVERTURNED IN THE
LAST TWO DECADES.
HE AND HIS GIRLFRIEND WERE IN
ANT OUT OF THE HOSPITAL WITH
THEIR INFANT SON STEPHEN AFTER A
COMPLICATED BIRTH.
WITT WAS WITH THE 4-MONTH-OLD
JUST BEFORE THEY RUSHED HIM TO
THE E.R. FOR THE FINAL TIME.
>> KNOWING HE HAD A MEDICAL
HISTORY, SEIZURES, KNOWING HE
HAD A VERY TROUBLED HISTORY FROM
BIRTH, EVEN KNOWING THAT, AS
SOON AS, YOU KNOW, BABY SHAKEN
SYNDROME WAS THROWN OUT THERE,
IT WAS A TRAIN THEY ALL JUMPED
ON.
NOBODY DECIDED TO LOOK FURTHER.
>> IF I FELT FOR ONE MILLIMETER
OF A SECOND THAT HE DID
SOMETHING TO OUR SON, I WOULD
HAVE TOOK CARE OF HIM MFSELF AND
THAT'S A WHAT I TOLD THE COPS,
YOU KNOW.
STEPHEN WAS MY ENTIRE WORLD, AND
IF I FELT AT ALL HE WAS EVER IN
DANGER, I WOULD HAVE NEVER PUT
HIM IN THAT SITUATION.
>> Reporter: WITT SAYS HE WAS
AN ANGRY AND AGGRESSIVE YOUNG
MAN WHO LOOKED THE PART OF A
ROUGH.
THEN HE WAS STILLED SURPRISED TO
BE FOUND GUILTY OF SECOND-DEGREE
MURDER.
HE SPENT 12 YEARS IN PRISON
UNTIL HIS APPEAL WAS HEARD.
IN A STATEMENT TO THE COURT, THE
MEDICAL EXAMINER WROTE, "THERE
IS NOW NO LONGER CONSENSUS IN
THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY THAT THE
ORIGINAL FINDINGS I REPORTED ARE
RELIABLE PROOF OF SHAKEN BABY
SYNDROME.
I BELIEVE STEPHEN'S DEATH WAS
LIKELY THE RESULT OF A NATURAL
DISEASE PROCESS."
SINCE WALKING FREE IN 2012, WITT
WITH HIS NOW WIFE AND DAUGHTER,
HAVE BEEN CATCHING UP ON A LIFE
DELAYED.
>> MY PEAK YEARS ARE GONE.
EVERYTHING FOR ME IS STARTING
OVER MID 30s.
SOME PEOPLE DON'T RECOVER FROM
THAT, AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
NEEDS TO BE NOT TAKEN LIGHTLY.
>> Reporter: DR. LAUREN
FRAZIER, AN EXPERT ON CHILD
ABUSE TREATS PATIENTS AT PENN
STATE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL IN
HERBIE AND TEACHES AT THE
COLLEGE OF MEDICINE.
>> WE HAVE TO BE TOTALLY HONEST
WITH PARENTS WHAT WE'RE DOING.
>> Reporter: SHE ALWAYS
BELIEVED THE TRIAD CAN APPEAR
FOR MULTIPLE REASONS BUT SHE
ALSO BELIEVES THAT IN THIS
CONTENTIOUS ENVIRONMENT THE
DEFENSE TOO OFTEN IGNORES THE
OBVIOUS.
>> BUT WHEN YOU HAVE SYMPTOMS
THAT COULD BE DUE TO SEVERE HEAD
TRAUMA UP TO INVESTIGATE BECAUSE
THAT'S MANDATORY UNDER THE LAW.
THE STANDARD IS REASONABLE
SUSPICION AND THEY PROVIDE
REASONABLE SUGGESTIONS SUSPICION
IN THE MEDICAL SETTING.
>> Reporter: MO ONE DISPUTES
CHILD ABUSE OCCURS.
THE ISSUE IS HOW TO NARROWLY
IDENTIFY THE REASON FOR A
MEDICAL CRISIS.
HOW DO YOU TELL THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN ABUSIVE AND ACCIDENTAL?
>> IT DEPENDS ON THE SEVERITY OF
THE INJURY, OF ASSOCIATED
INJURIES, OTHER INJURIES.
YOU TAKE A DETAILED MEDICAL
HISTORY.
YOU SPEND PROBABLY AT LEAST AN
HOUR OR MORE WITH FAMILY GOING
IN DETAIL.
TELL US WHAT HAPPENED.
>> I HAVE A LOT OF RESPECT FOR
THE FOLKS WHO WORK HARD TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE DIFFERENCE
IS, BUT WE NEED A MORE ACCURATE
WAY TO HAVE FIGURING OUT THE
DIFFERENCE BECAUSE IT IS
ABSOLUTELY UNACCEPTABLE FOR
CHILDREN TO BE ABUSED AND IT IS
SIMILARLY ABSOLUTELY
UNACCEPTABLE FOR PEOPLE WHO DID
NOTHING WRONG TO BE IN PRISON
FOR CRIMES THEY DIDN'T COMMIT.
>> Reporter: JUDSON OF THE
INNOCENCE NETWORK SAYS DESPITE
THE EVOLVING SCIENCE SHE HAS NOT
SEEN A DECLINE IN THE NUMBER OF
SHAKEN BABY CASES BEING
PROSECUTED, DIAGNOSED AND
INVESTIGATED.
THAT IS THE LEGAL LIMBO MARY
ELLEN AND DREW SHARTELE FOUND
THEMSELVES AFTER TRYSTAN'S
DEATH.
FOR MONTHS ALONE THEY COULDN'T
BE ALONE WITH THEIR SURVIVING
SON.
>> I COULDN'T SLEEP.
I WAS DEPRESSED.
I'M THANKFUL I MADE IT BECAUSE
THERE WERE MONTHS I WANTED TO
JOIN HILL.
>> Reporter: THEY SOLDIERED
ON, PACKING UP THE OLD HOUSE AND
MOVING TO A PLACE OF THEIR OWN.
A LEGAL RESOLUTION OF SORTS CAME
IN DECEMBER.
THE MEDICAL EXAMINER RULED THE
CAUSE OF DEATH AS UNDETERMINED.
NOTHING IN THE AUTOPSY REPORT
SUGGESTS SIGNS OF ABUSE, SUCH AS
FRACTURES, BROKEN BONES OR BLUNT
IMPACT.
HOWEVER, THE SHARTELS STAY THE
STATE OF MARYLAND WILL NOT
EXPENSE RECORDS TO HAVE THE CASE
FOR THREE YEARS AND UNTIL THEN
THEY COULD BE FLAGGED FOR EXTRA
SCRUTINY, IF THEY WANT TO OPEN A
DAYCARE,PHOR EXAMPLE, OR ADOPT A
CHILD.
INS>>TEAD OF GRIEVING YOU FIND
YOURSELF DEFENDING YOURSELF.
>> I FELT GUILTY TILL PROVEN
INNOCENT.
>> Reporter: THE SHARTLES
OPENED A FUND IN TRINES' MEMORY
FOR DIAGNOSING SHAKEN BABY.
FOR TEN MONTHS THEY TRIED TO
HELP THEIR 7-YEAR-OLD ADJUST.
>> YOU GO THROUGH INCREDIBLE
SADNESS AND NOT UNDERSTANDING
WHAT'S JUST HAPPENED TO YOU.
THEN THERE'S THE ANGER AT THESE
PEOPLE NOW INTRUDING INTO OUR
LI LOOKING AT US LIKE WE
DID SOMETHING THAT WE KNOW WE
DIDN'T DO.
>> I REMEMBER ON NEW YEAR'S EVE
WHEN THE BALL DROPPED, WE JUST
LOOKED AT EACH OTHER AND JUST
BURST INTO TEARS, JUST, LIKE,
OH, MY GOD, THAT WAS A HORRIBLE
YEAR.
THE FIRST HALF WAS THE BEST
TIME, AND THEN ON MAY 26th AT
3:00 A.M., OUR LIFE CHANGED.
>> Reporter: AND NOW WITH THE
CLOUD OF SUSPICION GONE ABOUT
JUST WHAT HAPPENED THAT NIGHT,
THEY ARE FREE TO TRULY GRIEVE
FOR THEIR LITTLE BOY.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour", THIS
IS JACKIE JUDD IN BETHESDA,
MARYLAND.
>> Ifill: WE ASKED MEDSTAR
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
AND MARYLAND'S CHILD PROTECTIVE
SERVICES TO COMMENT ON THIS
STORY.
BOTH DECLINED TO APPEAR.
>> Woodruff: POLICE IN
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA HAVE
RELEASED THE FINDINGS OF AN
INVESTIGATION INTO AN ALLEGED
SEXUAL ASSAULT AT A UNIVERSITY
OF VIRGINIA FRATERNITY DESCRIBED
IN A ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE
ARTICLE LATE LAST YEAR.
THE STORY DREW NATIONAL
ATTENTION, AND SOON THEREAFTER,
SCRUTINY OF THE DETAILS IN THE
ACCOUNT.
AT A PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY,
CHARLOTTESVILLE POLICE CHIEF
TIMOTHY LONGO DISCUSSED WHAT HIS
TEAM FOUND DURING THE
INVESTIGATION THAT INCLUDED
MULTIPLE INTERVIEWS WITH THE
ALLEGED VICTIM KNOWN ONLY AS
"JACKIE."
POLICE ALSO SPOKE WITH
UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS, FRATERNITY
MEMBERS AND FRIENDS OF THE
WOMAN.
IT'S THE FIRST OFFICIAL REPORT
TO DISCREDIT THE ACCOUNT.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, WE'RE NOT ABLE
TO CONCLUDE TO ANY SUBSTANTIVE
DEGREE THAT AN INCIDENT THAT IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE FACTS
CONTAINED IN THAT ARLO -- IN
THAT ARTICLE OCCURRED AT THE PHI
KAPPA PSI HOUSE OR ANY OTHER
FRATERNITY HOUSE FOR THAT
MATTER.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN SOMETHING
TERRIBLE DIDN'T HAPPEN TO JACKIE
OON THAT EVENING.
WE'RE JUST NOT ABLE TO GATHER
SUFFICIENT FACTS TO CONCLUDE
WHAT THAT SOMETHING MAY HAVE
BEEN.
>> Woodruff: JOINING ME NOW IS
TAYLOR REES SHAPIRO.
HE'S A "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTER WHO UNCOVERED
INCONSISTENCIES IN THE ORIGINAL
"ROLLING STONE" PIECE AND HAS
BEEN FOLLOWING THE DEVELOPMENTS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA,
SINCE.
TAYLOR REES SHAPIRO, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
WE KNOW JACKIE'S STORY, FIRST
SHE DESCRIBED SEVEN MEN
PHYSICALLY ASSAULTING HER, BEING
RAPED.
WHAT DID THE POLICE
INVESTIGATION UNCOVER?
>> THE POLICE INVESTIGATION,
WHICH INCLUDED INTERVIEWING 70
DIFFERENT PEOPLE AND SPENDING
HUNDREDS OF MAN-HOURS WITH THE
DETECTIVES, WAS NOT ABLE TO
CONCLUDE WITH ANY SUFFICIENT
EVIDENCE THAT THE ALLEGATIONS
THAT WERE DETAILED IN ROLLING
STONE WERE TRUE, MEANING THEY
WEREN'T ABLE TO PROVE THAT THE
ACTUAL GANG RAPE HAD OCCURRED.
>> Woodruff: SO IN DOING SO,
JUST GIVE US SOME SENSE OF NOT
ONLY WHO THEY TALKED TO BUT WHAT
THEY WERE TOLD THAT DID NOT
SQUARE WITH HER STORY.
>> SURE.
THE FIRST THING THE POLICE AIMED
TO DO WAS CONFIRM SOME DETAILS
IN THE STORY SUCH AS DID THE
PARTY OCCUR AT THE FRATERNITY
HOUSE ON SEPTEMBER 20, 2012.
IN ORDER TO DO THAT, THE POLICE
REACHED OUT TO MEMBERS OF THE
HOUSE THAT LIVED THERE THAT YEAR
AND I BELIEVE THEY SPOKE TO AT
LEAST NINE OR TEN OF THEM.
IN THE COURSE OF THAT
INVESTIGATION, THEY WERE ABLE TO
SHOW THAT, NO, THERE HAD NOT
BEEN A PARTY THAT NIGHT.
THEY ALSO REVIEWED FINANCIAL
RECORDS AND OTHER STATEMENTS
FROM THE FR FRATERNITY TO PROVE
THAT.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THEY ARE
ABLE TO PROVE THAT SINCE THERE
WAS NOT A PARTY THAT NIGHT, THEY
WERE ABLE TO SAY WITH MORE
DEFINITION THAT IT DIDN'T OCCUR
AT THE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: THEY SPOKE TO
FRIENDS OF HERS.
WHAT DID THAT PRODUCE?
>> THEY INTERVIEWED THREE PEOPLE
WHO MET JACKIE IN THE AFTERMATH
OF THE ALLEGED ATTACK AND THEY
TOLD A STORY SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WAS DETAILED
IN ROLLING STONE.
THEY SAID THEY DESCRIBED A
SEXUAL ATTACK SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT ADD OCCURRED
AND WHAT WAS DETAILED IN ROLLING
STONE, SUGGESTING
INCONSISTENCIES IN THE ACCOUNT
PROVIDED.
>> Woodruff: WAS THERE
ANYTHING IN HER ACCOUNT THEY
WERE ABLE TO CORROBORATE?
>> LONG SAID THEIR INVESTIGATION
IS SUSPENDED.
HE SAID THAT DOESN'T MEAN
SOMETHING HORRIBLE DID NOT OCCUR
TO HER, BUT AS FAR AS THEY WERE
CONCERNED THE ROLLING STONE
ACCOUNT WAS DISCREDITED.
>> Woodruff: IN TALKING TO
THEM PRIVATELY, THE UNIVERSITY
OFFICIALS AND OTHER PRIVATELY,
DO THEY BELIEVE SOMETHING DID
HAPPEN TO HER IN THE FALL OF
2012?
>> I MET JACKIE MULTIPLE TIMES
AND I WAS STUNNED BY THE
ALLEGATIONS SHE WAS DESCRIBING.
WHEN I TALKED THE OTHER PEOPLE
WHO KNEW HER THEY, TOO, BELIEVED
SOMETHING HAPPENED TO HER.
APPARENTLY IN THE MINUTES
AFTERWARD WHEN HER FRIENDS MET
HER THAT NIGHT.
THEY SAID SHE WAS CRYING,
EXTREMELY DISTRAUGHT, THAT SHE
DIDN'T APPEAR PHYSICALLY HURT
BUT VERY EMOTIONAL AND THEY ALL
CONCLUDED SOMETHING TERRIBLE
AKIN TO A SEXUAL ASSAULT MUST
HAVE OCCURRED, IN THEIR EYES.
>> Woodruff: MR. SHAPIRO,
UNDERSTAND WHY SHE HAS NOT
COOPERATED OR TALKED TO POLICE
FURTHER ANSWERING QUESTIONS?
>> IT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME.
I HAVE NOT SPOKEN TO JACKIE
SINCE SEPTEMBER AND HER LAWYERS
HAVE DECLINED TO COMMENT, I
CAN'T POSSIBLY SAY WHY OTHER
THAN SHE DOES NOT FEEL SHE NEEDS
TO.
>> Woodruff: IN WATCHING THIS
UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY, HOW WOULD
YOU SAY THERE IS A REFERENCE TO
THAT I THINK IN THE POLICE
CHIEF'S NEWS CONFERENCE ABOUT
HOW THE UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY HAS
DEALT WITH THIS?
HOW WOULD YOU SAY THEY HAVE
DEALT WITH IT, WHAT HAS CHANGED
ON THE CAMPUS, WOULD YOU SAY,
AND DO THEY FEEL THERE ARE
LESSONS LEARNED BY THIS?
>> SURE.
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S HAD A
ROUGH FEW MONTHS THAT BEGAN WITH
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF HANNAH
GRAHAM, THE ROLLING STONE
ALLEGATIONS AND ARREST OF POLICE
OFFICERSL IN CHARLOTTESVILLE.
THE SEXUAL ASSAULT BECAME A
HOTLY DEBATED TOPIC ON CAMPUS
AND RAISED AN ISSUE AND
GENERATED POSITIVE CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: MORE AWARENESS,
THE BETTER.
>> YES, EVEN ONE SEXUAL ASSAULT
IS ONE TOO MANY.
>> Woodruff: TAYLOR REES
SHAPIRO, COVERING FOR "THE
WASHINGTON POST."
THANK YOU.
>> OF COURSE.
>> Ifill: IT WAS A BUSY DAY AT
THERE
THE JUSTICES DECIDED NOT TO TAKE
UP A VOTER I.D. CASE OUT OF
WISCONSIN, AND, THEY HEARD
ARGUMENTS OVER THE RIGHT TO
ISSUE LICENSE PLATES IN TEXAS
THAT FEATURE A CONFEDERATE FLAG.
NEWSHOUR CONTRIBUTOR MARCIA
COYLE OF THE NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL WAS THERE AND JOINS ME
NOW.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THIS WISCONSIN
CASE.
IN 2011, IT WAS A BIG DEAL, THIS
IDEA THAT VOTERS HAD TO PRESENT
PHOTO I.D.S AT THE POLLS AND
THIS WAS CONSIDERED BY DEMOCRATS
TO BE VOTER SUPPRESSION AND BY
REPUBLICANS A CHANCE TO BEAT
VOTER FRAUD.
SO THIS GETS TO THE SUPREME
COURT AND THEY DECIDED TO END
UT?
>> NOT REALLY.
THEY DECIDED NOT TO HEAR THE
WISCONSIN CASE, SO THAT LEAVES
IN PLACE THE LOWER-COURT
DECISION UPHOLDING WISCONSIN'S
LAW.
THE COURT SAID NOTHING ABOUT THE
MERITS OF THE CHALLENGE TO
WISCONSIN'S LAW.
AND, GWEN, RIGHT NOW, THERE ARE
A NUMBER OF OTHER CASES PENDING
AND MOVING UP THE PIPELINE THAT
CHALLENGE OTHER STATES' VOTER
I.D. LAWS AND, IN PARTICULAR,
TEXAS AND NORTH CAROLINA.
TEXAS, THERE WAS A FULL-BLOWN
TRIAL AND THE JUDGE IN THAT CASE
FOUND INTENTIONAL RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION BY THE STATE OF
TEXAS, UNLIKE IN WISCONSIN THAT
CASE IS NOW ON APPEAL IN THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT AND EXPECTED
WHOEVER LOSES WILL TAKE IT TO
THE SUPREME COURT.
SO AS OF TODAY, WE REALLY DON'T
KNOW HOW THE JUSTICES THINK
ABOUT SOME OF THESE LAWS.
>> Ifill: BUT ADDITIONALLY
THIS WAS PUT ON HOLD BECAUSE IT
WAS TOO CLOSE TO AN ELECTION,
NOT THE MERITS.
>> EXACTLY, THE COURT DOES NOT
LIKE TO SEE CHANGING TO ELECTION
LAW SHORTLY BEFORE ELECTIONS.
THE WISCONSIN LAW WAS GOING TO
GO IN EFFECT RIGHT BEFORE
MIDTERM ELECTIONS.
TODAY THE ACLU AND OTHER GROUPS
THAT CHALLENGED WISCONSIN'S LAW
IMMEDIATELY WENT TO THE LOWER
COURT TO ASK AGAIN THAT BIT PUT
ON HOLD TEMPORARILY BECAUSE
THERE IS AN APRIL 6, I BELIEVE,
ELECTION AND, AGAIN, THEY
HAVEN'T HAD TIME TO IMPLEMENT
THE CHANGES.
>> Ifill: LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
ARGUMENTS OF THE CASE TODAY
BECAUSE WE CAN NEVER GET AWAY
FROM A DEBATE PERIODICALLY,
POLITICALLY, LEGALLY, ABOUT THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG, THIS TIME ON A
LICENSE PLATE.
>> RIGHT.
A REALLY INTERESTING CASE, A
VERY INTERESTING ARGUMENT TODAY.
TEXAS, LIKE MANY STATES, OFFER A
SPECIALTY LICENSE PLATES FOR A
FEE.
>> Ifill: WE'RE SEEING ONE
THERE.
>> GOOD.
THERE IS A STATE BOARD THAT
APPROVES OR DISAPPROVES OF
DESIGNS THAT DRIVERS SUBMIT
OFTEN AFTER NOTICE AND COMMENT.
SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS IS
AN ORGANIZATION THAT TRIES TO
PRESERVE THE LEGACY OF THOSE WHO
FOUGHT FOR THE CONFEDERACY IN
THE CIVIL WAR AND THEY SOUGHT A
DESIGN ON THE PLATE THAT
FEATURED THE CONFEDERATE FLAG.
THIS STATE BOARD OF TEXAS HEARD
THOUSANDS OF COMMENTS MOSTLY
NEGATIVE SAYING THE FLAG WAS
REALLY A BADGE OF SLAVERY.
THE BOARD REJECTED THE SIGN.
THERE WAS AN APPEAL.
THE LOWER APPELLATE COURT RULED
IN FAVOR OF SONS OF CONFEDERATE
VETERANS.
TEXAS BROUGHT THE CASE TO THE
SUPREME COURT AS A FIRST
AMENDMENT CASE.
THE CONFLICT BOILED DOWN VERY
SIMPLY IS WHO IS THE SPEAKER ON
THESE LICENSE PLATES?
THE STATE OF TEXAS SAYS THIS IS
GOVERNMENT SPEECH.
IF IT'S GOVERNMENT SPEECH, THE
FIRST AMENDMENT DOES NOT APPLY.
THE GOVERNMENT CAN CHOOSE
WHATEVER MESSAGE IT WANTS TO
MARKET OR DISPLAY ON THE PLANS
PLATE.
SONS OF CONFEDERATE VETERANS
SAYS NOBODY WHO LOOKS AT THESE
LICENSE PLATES THINK IT'S
GOVERNMENT SPEAKING, THEY THINK
ITS THE DRIVER.
>> Ifill: THE INDIVIDUAL OF
THE PLATE.
>> EXACTLY.
AND IF IT'S THE INDIVIDUAL THE
FIRST AMENDMENT DOES APPLY.
THAT WAS THE STRUCTURE OF THE
ARGUMENT.
>> Ifill: ISN'T FORMER TEXAS
GOVERNOR PERRY SAID THIS WAS
SCRAPING OLD WOUNDS?
DID THAT ARGUMENT GET ANY KIND
OF DISCUSSION TODAY BEFORE THE
JUSTICES?
>> IT REALLY DIDN'T FIGURE SO
MUCH ON THAT ARGUMENT.
THE JUSTICES REALLY PRESSED EACH
SIDE HERE TO SEE WHAT WAS THE
LIMIT TO THEIR ARGUMENT.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE TEXAS ATTORNEY,
HE WAS ASKED, OH, WELL, FOR
EXAMPLE, COULD SOMEONE PROPOSE
"VOTE REPUBLICAN" ON A LICENSE
PLATE AND TEXAS SAY THAT'S FINE,
BUT TURN DOWN SOMEONE WHO VOTES
DEMOCRATS ON THEIR LICENSE
PLATE.
>> Ifill: AND THE ANSWER?
TEXAS ATTORNEY SAID THERE
WOULD BE OTHER CONSTITUTIONAL
BARS TO DOING THAT, LIKE EQUAL
PROTECTION.
BUT HE PRESSED THE CONSEQUENCES
OF THE OTHER SIDE'S ARGUMENTS.
TEXAS WOULD HAVE TO PUT ON ITS
LICENSE PLATE, FOR EXAMPLE, A
SWASTIKA OR AL QUAIDA, SOMETHING
PROMOTING JIHAD.
>> Ifill: THAT WAS TRULY
OFFENSIVE.
>> YES, TRULY OFFENSIVE.
HE SAID THESE GROUPS THAT ARE
DENIED THEIR DESIGNS CAN GET
THEIR MESSAGES OUT IN OTHER
WAYS -- BUMPER STICKERS, A DECAL
ON A WINDSHIELD.
>> Ifill: BUT WHY PUT IT ON A
PLATE.
THE JUSTICES ARE LOOKING INTO
ARTICLE ARGUMENTS.
WHAT KIND OF QUESTIONS WERE THEY
ASKING?
>> THEY PRESSED ALONG THE LIMITS
AND ON THE SONS OF CONFEDERATE
VETERANS SIDE, THEY ASKED THAT
ATTORNEY, SO WHAT IS THIS HERE,
THIS LICENSE PLATE?
>> HE SAID THIS IS A LIMITED
PUBLIC FORUM.
TEXAS OPENED THESE SPECIALTY
LICENSE PLATES TO THE PUBLIC TO
DESIGN A MESSAGE AND ONCE THEY
DID THAT, THE FIRST AMENDMENT
WOULD COME INTO PLAY.
TEXAS, HE SAYS, USES AN
ARBITRARY STANDARD FOR DECIDING
ABOUT THE MESSAGE.
IT SAYS ONLY IF IT'S OFFENSIVE
TO ANYONE.
>> Ifill: HOW MANY OTHER
STATES HAVE CONFEDERATE FLAGS
AND THINGS LIKE THIS.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY.
>> Ifill: SO WE DON'T KNOW
WHETHER THIS WOULD ALIE TO OTHER
STATES?
>> OH, YES, CERTAINLY.
WHAT THE COURT SAYS ABOUT
WHETHER THIS IS GOVERNMENT
SPEECH OR PRIVATE, INDIVIDUAL
SPEECH WILL HAVE AN IMPACT ON
OTHER STATES THAT OFFER
SPECIALTY LICENSE PLATES AND
ALSO THE COURT HASN'T SPOKEN
MUCH ABOUT WHAT GOVERNMENT
SPEECH LIKELY IS.
IT'S NOT ONLY LICENSE PLATES BUT
COULD BE IN OTHER CONTEXTS.
>> Ifill: MARCIA COYLE, THANK
YOU ALWAYS.
>> MY PLEASURE, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: FOR MANY YEARS
KODAK FILM WAS ONE OF THE
NATION'S LEADING COMPANIES, WITH
145,000 EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE AND
ANNUAL SALES OF $19 BILLION.
TODAY KODAK IS A MUCH SMALLER
COMPANY, DIGITAL CAMERAS DON'T
NEED FILM, AND KODAK IS FOCUSING
INSTEAD ON EXPLOITING THOUSANDS
OF PATENTS IT HOLDS.
THE NEW YORK TIMES PRODUCED THIS
SNAPSHOT OF THE PHYSICAL AND
CULTURAL TRANSFORMATION TAKING
PLACE AT KODAK COMPANY
HEADQUARTERS IN ROCHESTER, NEW
YORK.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE SOME
MIXED EMOTIONS.
WE TOOK DOWN 30 BUILDINGS AND
ABOUT 6 MILLION SQUAREEET F OF
SPACE.
IN 34 YEARS, I WORKED IN A LOT
OF THESE BUILDINGS.
I HAVE TO BE HONEST, IT WAS A
LITTLE BIT TOUGH TO SEE SOME OF
THAT GOING DOWN.
>> USED TO BE CALLED KODAK PARK.
YOU'RE STANDING IN A PLACE THAT
USED TO HAVE TENS OF THOUSANDSO
OF EMPLOYEES WORKING THERE.
NOW IT HAS FEWER, MORE
DIVERSIFIED, BUT STILL AN
EXCITING PLACE.
>> WE STILL HAVE OVER 6,500
PEOPLE.
THE DIFFERENCE IS THREE-QUARTERS
OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE NON-KODAK
WORKERS TODAY.
>> ALL AROUND US ARE OTHER
COMPANIES, NOT KODAK.
>> IN THIS FACILITY WHERE
THEY'RE NOW MAKING SAUCE AND
SALSA, KODAK USED TO MAKE CAMERA
BODIES.
NOW IT'S JUST NORMAL.
MY LAST FIVE YEARS AT KODAK, I
USED TO MANAGE THE DECLINE.
SELL BUILDINGS, CUT COSTS.
IT WAS DEPRESSING.
IT WAS JUST A SHADOW OF ITS
FORMER SELF.
WHAT IT IS TODAY IS VERY
DIFFERENT.
OBVIOUSLY, KODAK IS A PRETTY
INTERESTING COMPANY AND IS A
BRAND THAT WAS VERY WARM, VERY
PERSONAL BECAUSE THESE WERE YOUR
MEMORIES THAT YOU WERE
CAPTURING.
PART OF ME SAYS WE NEED TO CARRY
ON THAT LEGACY, AND THE NEXT
GENERATION OF PRODUCTS WE MAKE,
CHILDREN OF THIS TECHNOLOGY IN
THERE.
WE HAD 7,000 PATENTS.
WE MAKE INKS AND TONERS.
WE ALSO MAKE THE FASTEST
COMMERCIAL PRINTING INK JET
MACHINES IN THE WORLD.
WE USE FILM AND PUT GRID ON IT.
>> WE THEN PRINT.
PUT GLUE ON A PIECE OF
CONSTRUCTION PAPER AND SPRINKLE
SPARKLES ON TOP IS SIMILAR TO
WHAT GOES ON HERE.
HERE IS THE INK.
THIS IS THE METAL.
MORE HIGH-TECH BUT FUNDAMENTALLY
THAT'S WHAT GOES ON.
CODA COLOR FILM.
THIS IS THE NEXT GENERATION OF
THE PRODUCTS.
>> PART OF ME WOULD LOVE TO HAVE
THE BUSINESS WE HAD.
WHILE I ENJOY THE NOSTALGIA, I'M
BEYOND THAT NOW.
I'M READY TO MOVE ON.
KODAK WILL BE OFFERING MORE JOBS
HERE.
BUT I THINK THE REAL JOBS WILL
LIKELY COME FROM OTHER COMPANIES
COMING IN AND UTILIZIN THEG
CAPABILITY HERE.
>> AT ONE TIME THERE WERE 30,000
PEOPLE MANUFACTURING NOW 300 PEE
MANUFACTURING FI.LM
THERE HAS TO BE A SENSE OF IT.
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO TRIM A
TREE FOR IT TO GROW STRONGER.
>> THIS IS A REAL EXCITING
CHANGE FOR US.
>> I JUMPED SHIP AND CAME OVER
TO THE FOOD AND BEVERAGE
INDUSTRY.
FOOD AND BEVERAGES, YOU KNOW,
IT'S THE ONE THING I LIKE ABOUT
IT THE MOST IS PEOPLE HAVE TO
EAT.
IT WON'T BE REPLACED BY DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGY, AND THAT I LIKE.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN FIND MORE
ON KODAK AND THE COMPANY'S
TRANSFORMATION, ONLINE AT
nytimes.com/video.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
REPUBLICAN SENATOR TED CRUZ OF
TEXAS BECAME THE FIRST CANDIDATE
TO ANNOUNCE A PRESIDENTIAL BID
IN 2016.
367 MEMBERS OF THE
U.S. HOUSE, FROM BOTH PARTIES,
RELEASED A LETTER TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA ON NUCLEAR TALKS WITH
IRAN.
IN IT, THEY INSISTED THAT TEHRAN
MUST HAVE "NO PATHWAY TO A
BOMB."
AND YEMEN'S PRESIDENT APPEALED
TO OTHER ARAB STATES TO HELP HIM
STOP SHIITE REBELS, ALLIED WITH
IRAN.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: IT'S NOT EASY TO HAVE A
FRANK DISCUSSION ABOUT RACE AND
CULTURE IN AMERICA, BUT AS WE
CONTINUE OUR SERIES "RACE TODAY"
ON THE YOUNGER GENERATIONS'
ATTITUDES, WE ASKED SOME GUEST
COLUMNISTS TO SHARE THEIR
THOUGHTS: FROM PERSONAL
EXPERIENCES TO SCHOLARLY DATA.
FIRST UP IS BRITTANY COOPER,
A SELF-DESCRIBED "CUSP
MILLENNIAL" AND ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR OF AFRICANA STUDIES AT
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY.
FIND HER COLUMN ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE TALK TO AFGHAN
PRESIDENT ASHRAF GHANI ABOUT THE
WAY AHEAD FOR HIS WAR WEARY
NATION.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.